>> ThePrimeagen: All right, so I'm gonna
play around a little bit with Neovim,
show you guys a few things about Neovim.
Let's show of hands, how many people
here are VS Coders, slash Zedders,
all that the other side, yeah, yeah.
Anyone, Neovimers, any Neovimers in here?
Let's go, mana for my own heart.
We got one people, [APPLAUSE] all right.
That's all I wanna say,
just because it's not that I'm
trying to convince you to use it.
It's that I want to show you
guys what it can do, and then
at some point in the future it might solve
your problems in a way that's different.
Cuz one of the biggest problems,
and everybody has this problem,
every last person has this problem.
Right now, I've been using
Zed to solve some problems.
Did I?
I deleted Zed.
When I was doing all this,
I wiped out my local.bin.
Zed was in local.bin,
I'm gonna have to reinstall Zed.
But you get the idea that everyone has
a notion of how something should be used.
And when you use something different,
you try to make it into that.
You see this all the time, especially
when someone learning a new language.
If you've only ever done JavaScript and
you attempt to learn Go,
you're gonna try to write Go
like you write JavaScript.
And then you're gonna go, this language
sucks, and I'm gonna go, yeah,
it kind of does suck.
Not because it sucks, but
because how you use it kinda sucks.
It's not really meant to be used this way.
That's a bad way to approach it,
you shouldn't approach it that way.
And so it's just like you always have to
kind of adopt a new mentality when you use
something new.
And so Neovim has its own way
you should use it and it's very,
very different than how you use VS Code.
And so if you go into Vim,
you try to make it into an IDE,
you probably won't like it.
It just probably will be really awful.
It just won't be a good experience and
I don't blame you,
because I wouldn't like it either.
All right,
creating your own Neovim experience.
I'm gonna give you a little brief look.
This isn't really a follow along section.
If you already have Neovim set up,
you theoretically could.
If you kinda have just a basic idea,
you could, but
I'm just gonna kinda show
you a couple cool things.
So, first off,
like we've kind of talked about dot files,
Neovim also has its RC
file that gets started.
I'm gonna go into here, and
we had this under config neovim.
I'm gonna replace this as nvim right here,
and it has a knit loop, so
I have Hello fan.
So if I were to execute dev-env and
then open up vim,
you'll notice that it prints this.
And that's because that script
I just wrote executed and
only had one line, print,
right, and that's it.
And so
theoretically I could do a lot more.
Now, the nice part is that anything
that's on the path will be executed or
will be included in vim.
And so, one of the paths is config/nvim,
so my XDG path.
So anything in here I can now
incorporate into my Vim experience.
So I can go in here and
create a folder called Lua, and
inside of there I can create it as prime,
inside of here,
I can have an init.lua, and
I can have print( hello from prime, right?
Oopses, how do I even do that?
That was weird.
All right, there we go,
must have pressed something.
There we go, so we have that, and
now I have this beautiful
little file right here.
So I can now require in that prime file.
I can go, require("prime"),
and this will have that.
That's not require, require.
There we go.
So anything that's in there,
can I figure it out?
There you go, it can figure that out.
It can figure out that script.
That means you can build kind of a complex
set of .files to really incorporate and
run your neovim experience, and
this is really just the basic.
You have an init file, anything that's
a source can have a Lua directory.
Anything inside that Lua
directory can have subdirectories.
Those subdirectories
are requireable by name.
And so me personally,
I put all my .files under config neovim,
Lua, the prime engine.
So that way I don't run into anyone else's
library, cuz if you just name it math,
maybe there's gonna be
something called math, right?
You don't wanna name it dumb things,
because or
else you're just gonna collide and
it stinks.
So I just have it as my name,
put it in there, and then it just works.
So that means if I go in here and
I quit this, and I do that, and
I bring this back up, and I vim,
you're gonna notice this says hello
from prime, and then hello fem, right?
So I went and did both of them.
It required in my file, and
then it did the printing out and so
everything's kinda running.
So that's like the basic idea of this.
It gets really extensive.
If you actually want to get into
some level of neoviming and
you wanna go do all that,
check out kickstart.neovim.
I probably should add
the word Neovim in there,
cuz there's entirely too many things
called a kickstart in the universe.
But if you went here,
you could go through and
this just gives you the minimal file that
you need, it just gives you a net.lua.
And the net.lua, when it opens up,
it has some nice little comments,
some cool little ASCII.
Look how cool that ASCII art is.
And inside of here, it just has everything
you'd need to get Vim started as one file
with a bunch of auto completing LSPs,
telescope.
Everything you possibly need,
shows you how to use package
manager all in one file.
And it's mostly comments, just to kind
of explain the whole thing and so
it's pretty fantastic.
And so just like a thing, check it out.
It's a good way to get started.
I just wanna show you it's
very easy to get started,
easy to create your own directories.
That's all you need to know,
learn Kickstart.
Everything else is pretty fantastic.
All right, so now, we're gonna get into,
I don't wanna call them bragging moments,
but we're gonna do some pretty
cool stuff with all of this.
So let's see.
I had one more note about Vim.
If you see someone that's
using something like Vim and
they're using it really profesionally,
and you wanted to start with that,
the best way to do that is to
start by learning Vim motions.
Use your current editor, VS Code.
Maybe you just wanna use the motions and
never use Vim ever.
That's totally good, but
I would argue that Vim
motions are an objectively better
experience than your mouse every time.
You learn how to use them,
you will be significantly faster.
The juice will eventually be worth the
squeeze if you want to get good at it, but
at some point your mouse is
just not gonna be as good.
>> Speaker 2: Is it similar to people
who are really good with spreadsheet
shortcuts?
>> ThePrimeagen: Yeah, when you meet
anyone that knows a program really well,
you go, wow, that's really cool, right?
It's just because they've just
taken the time to learn it.
The thing is I program for
30 to 50 hours a week.
So, I should just learn these things,
because I'm constantly manipulating text.
My only thing I do is take text, make
it into one shape, into another shape,
into another shape, into another shape.
And it's just this constant
act of doing that.
And so you can do that in any editor,
it does not have to be Vim.
Just learn a text like a keyboard
centric approach to your life, and
it will pay off bigly as time goes on,
just not all that convenient.
>> Speaker 3: What's the Vim
motion to expand all the windows?
>> ThePrimeagen: Expand all the windows?
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> ThePrimeagen: That one does not exist,
because Vim does not have
that as an option, okay?
And you could, though, you could make it.
I bet you you could do that,
because you could write a little Lua
script that contacts your window manager.
And your window manager could
make all the things pop out, and
then you could use your mouse,
and it'd be fantastic.
Also, I said this earlier, which is, when
you're first using something like Vim,
you probably have this experience
that makes you feel very confused.
And that's because you
don't have a file tree.
There's no file tree.
So if you had a file tree,
all of a sudden,
it starts to look more
of what you're used to.
And so whenever you look at something
that looks new, it feels very confusing.